**Unknown Speaker  00:00**
By the Israeli regime and its supporters in the West as self defense, as if this isn't the most powerful, technologically powerful, well armed, well funded states in the entire region against people who everybody knows, everybody will admit, are not even close to being armed in the same way, and yet this is self defense by this overwhelmingly powerful state against these others. This is what's described. And whilst all this is taking place, the West is lining up to back it, unconditionally, to back Israel, to back the genocide by the sword of all these people, the terrorist actions that they take. Those terror sessions, had they been carried out by any other state, on any other states territory, would have been described as terrorism. That's literally what it was. But in the in the British press, for example, those attacks of the pages and the walkie talkies were described as a triumph. They were described as audacious. It was celebrated and Keir Starmer, David Lammy, the BBC, they all just pumping out, making statements, pumping out propaganda, at the very least, saying, well, Israel does have the right to defend itself. And there is two sides to this, even the even the even, even the softest elements of the British press and and the British establishment are are saying that, well, there's two sides to this. You know, Israel's is, it has the right to self defense and has to be able to fight back. It has to be able to sit back. Right after statements like here, Starmer saying, what after, for example, Iran fired its missiles against Israel. Starmer Kayan condemned that. That's a disgrace. That's outrageous Iran. He said it's causing instability. It's been a it's been an act of causing instability in the region, painting Iran as this force of black reaction that's causing all kinds of trouble in the region. Iran is not the one carrying out terrorist attacks in multiple different countries all across the region, invading two different countries in the last year, and all of these people, they're coming out. They're condemning, they're condemning. They're condemning Iran. They're backing Israel, wailing about self defense and everything else, and throughout, there is no mention at any point of the root cause of all of this, which is the decades long aggression of the Palestinians and the illegal occupation that continues to take those and the illegal actions, for example, in the West Bank, which is ongoing at This at this moment, right now as we're speaking and and also, actually, by the same take the the occupation. In all of this invasion of Lebanon, there's been no talk of the fact that Israel occupied Lebanon for 15 years, up until part of Lebanon up until 2000 until Hezbollah pushed Israel out. But there's no talk of any of that for these guys, it all began on October the seventh last year, and there was nothing else. And the BBC everything, we all began on October the seventh, and then, and then Hezbollah just started firing rockets over the border on October the eighth. And therefore Israel has the right to defend itself. And No, at no point does anybody ask, or anybody in the media or the establishment talk about what was happening on October 6 last year, or going back further than that, and going back seven to six years, what was going on that's a little bit beyond the scope of what we've got time to talk about today. I'm assuming a broad knowledge of some historical crimes that have taken place in that region. Now, the first point that we have to really hammer home is that communists are always on the side of the oppressed people in any situation when, when there are people being oppressed by imperialism, we will always be on the side of the oppressed against the oppressors. And we would say, therefore, we are on the side of the Palestinian people. We're on the side of the Lebanese people. We're on the side of the Iranian people in fighting back against that aggression, against the Israeli oppression. You being periodism that is funded by the West, basically, and we would say that they have the right to fight back, then defend themselves. People who are being oppressed do have that right to fight back, and we emphasize their right to self defense. Now we can come on and we can just discuss how that right is carried out, how that self defense is carried out. Is the Iranian regime, for example, actually seriously putting up a fight in the interest of the Iranian people who are being attacked by Israel imperialism. That's question is up for debate, but there is no debate over whether the Lebanese people, the arrangement for the Palestinians, have the right to self defense and the right to fight back, and they do have that right, and we defend that way. The other next, very important thing for communists to do in this situation, I would say, is to expose the hypocrisy of the ruling class, where we are, the ruling class in this country, for example, and the rest of the Western ruling class, the imperialists in us, for example. We don't have to work that hard to do that. I think most people can see the sickening hypocrisy that's coming out. For example, the British government, at the moment. Just last week, his son was at the UN at the Security Council, and he made a big speech attacking the Russian representative. He said, You shouldn't even be here at the Security Council. Russia has invaded a sovereign nation. It's killed 35,000 people. And big kind of sound and fury, speech, debilitation, the world. That's what he said by Russia. And to any, anyone with two brain cells could can read that speech and think, how does this not apply to Israel, which actually has given score Israel's invaded two countries and killed 41,000 people, instead of 35,000 people and far more children. More children in Gaza and everything else, Iran fires some missiles back at Israel, which, even by the standards of bourgeois international law, which is a joke, it means nothing. But even by those standards, Iran has everything right to do, given that Israel has been carrying out assassinations on its territory and no civilians are killed in that Iranian strike against Israel. Well, it did cause a lot more damage than they're willing to admit, but it was targeted in military installations. Iran then is threatened with more strikes against its oil product producing facilities, for example, is threatened with more sanctions from the west at the same time as Israel has handed a $8.7 billion a package. It's the hypocrisy, the double standards are so clear to everybody, and you realize what, what communists have known for a long time and argued for a long time, the idea of a rules based international order, which they always talk about, is rubbish. It's just, that's just the euphemism for the US decides do what the US wants, and you'll be okay. US sets the rules. It'll apply double standards and make some difference. The rules based order is what it is, what is in the interest of us, imperialism, if it's against us, imperialism, it's outside of the rules. That is probably more clear today to millions of people than has ever been the case in the past, even when it comes to things like the Iraq war, for example, because what you have here is the conflict in Ukraine happening at the exact same time as a conflict in the Middle East, and the US is very and Western experience in general is very clearly applying these double standards. Well, we have to make that hypocrisy extremely clear and very explicit every possible opportunity that is a big job in this country. It's very important for us to understand also that there is a general desire for peace and part of our propaganda, part of the stuff that we should be explaining and pointing out is that truly war and peace, nobody wants to see a war. Who is it? Who's sabotaging peace in the Middle East? It's Netanyahu. It's the Israeli regime that has consistently for the last 12 months, sabotaged any attempt at peace. Hamas accepted a peace deal, and the bloke that they killed in Tehran was working towards that peace deal, and Hamas has accepted the US put one forward. Hamas accepted it. It's Netanyahu that satisfied it and killed the negotiator Iran has shown. Iran has had someone assassinated on their own territory, and they've had like Netanyahu at the UN last week stood up and said, We will be exact words, but something like there is nowhere in Iran that the long arm of Israel cannot reach. It's an open threat. Basically, it's been deliberately provoking the Iranians throughout this whole period. And Iran has shown incredible restraint, when you think about it, under these conditions, they're not out for war. They're not looking for in fact, they want the Iranian regime. And by the way, the Iranian regime is a bourgeois regime. They're not communists or anything like this is the bourgeois, capitalist regime. But the Iranians want to deal with the West. They actually want to. They want to deal with the West to ease the sanctions on the European economy. They don't want war. They don't want to pick a fight. They're not interested. They don't want that. They've been trying to deescalate. They've been trying to move away from it. It's Netanyahu that's been pushing constantly. The Israeli regime is what's been pushing for war. Lebanon also had agreed a ceasefire. That's rather the guy that they killed in Beirut. The head of Hezbollah had agreed a ceasefire hours before they go on this building, because Netanyahu doesn't want a ceasefire. He wants war in the region. Why is that? It's because, actually, a lot of it is down to him personally.

**Unknown Speaker  09:55**
There's the interest of the Israeli regime in general, the Israeli capitalist class in general. Who do? It's true, they do see Iran as an obstacle to their general interests. Like Iran, especially since the invasion of Iraq, has developed a broader and broader sphere of influence, more and more allies. It's quite powerful in the region. It's a major power that is a block to the development of Israeli capitalism. They the Israeli world class wants more spheres of influence, and so, yeah, the Israeli ruling class doesn't like the Iranian ruling class for that reason. So there's, there's a general interest going on there, but that's been the case for a while. That doesn't explain why now a war is very now. The reason why now there's this drive towards war is because Netanyahu personally has an interest in it, because he is facing charges of corruption, serious charges of maps of corruption. And if he loses power, he will probably end his days in a jail cell, and he doesn't want that. And he therefore has to keep power. And the only way he can keep himself with power is by prolonging the war. And extending the war. He's gone from a war just against Gaza to this war then against against Lebanon trying to drag it Iran in the best thing, and would be if we could get the US involved. Also is desperately trying to drag the us along. So he is. His personal interests are a major driving factor. Now for communists, for Marxists, the role of the individual, like the individuals do play an important role in situations of war and and in history in general. Is true. We see things in in terms of broad historical forces, class conflict, driving things forward. Individuals can only play a limited role. In that sense, history is not made by individuals. It's made by broader processes than that. And yet, in certain periods and under certain circumstances,

**Unknown Speaker  11:50**
in certain circumstances, certain situations, individuals can play a major role in the development of history, and that is what you're seeing at the moment, he's driving us forward. Meanwhile, then the West follows suit, the US imperialists, British imperialists. They are dragged in Netanyahu, his way. Basically, they're kind of what they feel anyway, forced into supporting him. There's a number of reasons for that. I don't know that I have time really to go into, actually, but it's to do with maintaining their own imperialists like prestige, bit of influence. Russia is intervening quite heavily in the Middle East these days, in Syria in particular, for example, China is an important economic trading partner for a lot of those countries. China actually, not that long ago, brokered an important deal between Saudi Arabia and Iran, and that had nothing to do the US. The US was quite angry. China, Russia's got its eyes there. China's got its eyes there. The US is feeling a bit under pressure. They had a bad time a bit in Syria after 2011 also, after 2011 when they're out of the Arab Spring that took place all across that region. They lost a lot of allies in that in those mass movements that took place, a lot of US allies were toppled. The only ally they've really got now is Israel, and so they kind of forced her to back Israel, whatever it does. And that is why they're being dragged along by this, this individual madman, basically, who's pushing the region towards war. And all of this is obviously an incredibly dangerous game. From an imperialist point of view. You've got to remember, the capitalists, they don't care about human life at all. It makes no difference then all. They care about profits, spheres of influence, markets. They don't mind about 40,000 dead in Gaza is nothing to them, but even from their their class point of view, this is a dangerous game to be playing, because just on Friday, for example, when Biden says he reports as to media, he gave a statement that said, Well, I've just had a chat with Israel thinking about hitting Iran's oil producing facilities, the price of oil jumped by 5% just just from that, even a small jump of 5% and the price of oil on a world scale, at a time when the world economy is in a very fragile state that could tip the world into recession on its own. And if things really escalated, you've got to remember, Iran controls the straight performance through which 20% of the world's oil goes, they could close that. That'd be the end of any global economic stability. And Iran obviously funds the Houthis in Yemen, who, as we've already seen, can disrupt shipping running through that part of 30% of the world. Shipping containers go through that part of the world. So if things really escalated in that region. The world economy would be finished in an already it's in an already fragile state. You already saw the inflation everything else that was fueled in part by the war in Ukraine. Well, this would be that on steroids, and all of the crisis and a massive class conflict that would erupt in the Western countries if something like that would happen, is that it's a very dangerous thing for Biden, for example, to be doing, for us, for the British class, to be doing playing with games like that. And yet they are forced to, they're forced into this mad situation. They're forced to take decisions really against their own interests, because of this contradictory situation of world relations, their lack of allies in the region. Anything they do is a bad decision from the ruling classes point of view, but they are willing to go down that route. That's the point. This is, this is the nature of the level, the depth of the crisis that world capitalism is in at the moment, that whatever the capitalist class does, or its representatives, whatever the imperialists do is a bad decision from the point of the vast majority of people and and yet they're willing to just keep making bad decisions. Doesn't occur to them that maybe their system has reached a dead end. Obviously, it can't occur to them because they represent that system. For the rest of us, we can see that they are dragging us towards barbarism in one form or another, and the only alternative is some kind of fundamental change. I'll come on to question, can we actually convince these people something different a little bit later on? Obviously, the answer, isn't it, but yeah, to move on. There's a couple of smaller points to understand. I'll just touch on these briefly. The first is that a big element what you're seeing in the media, we're seeing the press and the kind of propaganda you're hearing coming out of the Israeli regime is is tinged with racism and the idea that basically, the Muslims or Arabs are the backward, barbaric kind of people, basically. And this is what this is what they mean. So Israel's the only democracy in the region. It's the only civilized, westernized kind of country in the region. And that racism basically covers the idea that it is, that it is promoting, that they're using is, well, actually, okay, the way to think about it is this, which is, the force is actually dragging that region towards barbarism. Which is the force is actually backward force. It is not the Arab countries. It is the it is the western country. It was the Western imperialist and the Israeli

**Unknown Speaker  17:24**
regime. And we should, we should draw that point out basically, and then the other, the other again, mind, if I don't have time to develop it in a lot of detail. But

**Unknown Speaker  17:36**
what the Israeli regime, what the Israeli ruling class, says, is that they are protecting the Jews in Israel. Basically, that's, that's their whole their whole policy, their whole mission is will protect the Jews in Israel. And that's why we do what we do, self defense and all the rest of it. But the way, for the last 76 years, the way they have proposed to protect the Jews in Israel is permanent war. It's permanent war, but permanent living under siege conditions. Basically, they created, deliberately create, a siege mentality, which, a year ago, on October 7, was proved. It's not actually keeping them safe anyway. It hasn't worked. The whole thing is a light. In fact, what they have built is not a safe haven for Jewish people. It's a trap. It's a trap that they have. They have deliberately built and used that to maintain their own profits and power and privileges, keep that society in a state of constant fear, constant warfare, constant conflict, in order to then maintain their own position at the top. The point is that the Israeli ruling class, as long as that Israeli ruling class is there and in power, never mind individuals like Netanyahu as a class, as a regime, there will always be war is inbuilt into their DNA. They are built deliberately and designed to be a war machine in that region, to be an outpost of Western imperialism in that region. And this is an important point, which I'll come back to, being an outpost of Western imperialism that Israeli regime would not last two weeks without Western support, without Western backing. On its own, it couldn't last that's important to remember. I'll come back to that. But when you think about the Western imperialists, you think about as outposts they have there. They are willing to support it. They're back into the hill, send weapons, diplomatic support, cover, justification for everything that they're doing. They support the war over there at the same time, and inherently linked to the class war that they are waging here and in the United States, for example, because they say, well, there's no money for the NHS, there's no money for housing, for healthcare, for education. And yet there is all kinds of money and support and everything else for the war in Ukraine, for Zelensky, for example. Or there's all kinds of money and

**Unknown Speaker  20:13**
support for Israel. And I mean, this is saying, put it this way, of the demonstration the weekend in London.

**Unknown Speaker  20:26**
She said, Starmer will support the bombing of hospitals in Gaza, and they also support the cutting of the NHS here in Britain. So you can either die for an explosion in Gaza, or your hospitals can be destroyed by an explosion in Gaza, or your hospitals can destroy by 1000 cuts. In Britain, it's the same policy pursued for the same reasons, which is to protect the profits of the rich, whether they are investors in Israel and Britain has a about six, about 6 billion trade relationship between the UK and Israel, whether it's to protect their investments and their profits, or whether it's to protect the profits of and keep the tax bills of the rich low in this country, for example. And that's a really important point for us to make, I think, is to link those two things. This is not just something that exists far away inside the world. The policies that are government pursued there are directly linked, and they stem from the same place, and they're to achieve the same aims as the policies that they perceive. And for that reason, well also, yeah, to come back to this point that Israel wouldn't last two weeks without the support of Western imperialism, what does that tell us about the best way to stop what is going on there? What is the best way to fight, from our point of view here in Bristol in the UK, best thing we can do is to fight our own ruling party, cut off that support. Because, I mean, even that Iran can find some missiles at Israeli military installations. Is that going to stop what's going on? It's not. It's going to make the Israelis double down, and they'll strike back, and they'll push for even more. In fact, then Yahoo, what he's been trying to provoke that kind of response. He wants a war that suits it, that helps him. I mean, from from an even more narrow point, from an even more narrow point of view, thinking about this country, we were the RCP was on the big demonstration in London on Saturday. It was massive. Part of it, about half a million people out there. And it was quite energizing. It's quite encouraging to see so many people out there. Yeah, is that? What is that going to do? Is that going to stop it? A demonstration, A to B on its own? Is not petitions, even boycotts. They all. They all have a role to play. Like, I mean, I'll come on to the type of boycott talking about. But, I mean, I'm talking about consumer boycotts, individual consumer boycotts. They will have a role to play. They have a place there. Fine. That's okay. Is Netanyahu going to be looking at that and thinking half a million people marched in London? I better stop this draft. He doesn't give a shit. He doesn't care about that. He has the backing of the US. Yeah, he has $8.7 billion in just the latest tranche of eight from the United States, he doesn't care that some people aren't buying a particular kind of pumice, for example, in Britain, that makes no difference the Israeli regime, and it will not stop it. The best thing we can do is target our own rule in the past, the ones who actually fund the guy, the ones the ones who actually keep that regime going. That is how you that's how you fight the the genocide. That's how you fight the Israeli regime. And that's what we can do here. It's a he has a massive the Israeli regime is a powerful, a massively powerful force. A force has to be met by force. It's not met by by petitions or pleading or or attempts to convince, or anything like this. And what is the most powerful force on the planet is the organized working class. It's the millions of people who actually control production, who actually make the world go round, who actually produce the weapons, for example, who actually even the civil servants in Britain who sign up on the on the on the contracts to explore the weapons, for example, or the bus drivers, who who who get the wet, the armaments workers to the batteries or the the oil rig workers who keep the lights on in the factories to allow them to continue to function and produce weapons, those are the people who really have the power over the Israeli war machine. That's why, that's why they are the most powerful working Marxist communists. They emphasize the power of the working class, not for nostalgic reasons or something someone like it's not just a weird, random fetish, it's a it's because they actually occupy the most powerful position in production, in the running of the economy, and obviously an album and production in particular. And so our main job has has to focus on that layer, on the working class in this country. That is the best way that we can strike lows against the entire network of imperialism and the support network that is Israel and class relies on and so we, you know, yeah, we demand, obviously, an immediate cessation. We would demand immediate cessation of support for Israel, but Israel, including arms exports and stuff like this. But we understand that the government won't do it. They're not going to do that just by because we asked them to. It requires organization of the working class, and by that I mean things like strike action and blockade. Right now in the US, there is a blockade taking oil, strikes taking place in ports, not about Palestine, but that strike is showing the power of a very small layer of workers who they're refusing to unload the chips those ports can't function. Massive backlog of ships out to sea, it has potential to cost the US economy more than a billion dollars a week. I think it is that is a massive amount of power that an organized section of working class can wield. And there are all kinds of examples of workers getting organized to blockade arms shipments. For example, it's been done in the past. It's done with pinner shales in power in Chile, for example, by workers in Scotland. They simply refused to do maintenance on Pinochet jets that were sent the engines for the jets that were being sent to Scotland for the maintenance and repair. They just refused to do it because they didn't support the Pinochet regime in Chile. More recently, similar thing with happened ports in Italy, for example, the Dockers have refused to ship weapons that were being used by Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Other examples like this, class based action to take, like class based direct action, basically not just petitions, not just asking the government to change his mind, but refusing to allow it to happen, consciously blocking it. And obviously we we would, what we're talking about is a campaign to nationalize the armed industries under workers, because those industries have enormous potential for producing talk about this just when we having a copy, just before this meeting, the workers who work in the armed industries are not just weapons manufacturers. They're engineers. They are skilled people who are capable of producing all kinds of things that are of some social use. So when we say, nationalize the arms industry, and we would say, retool it, what actually for socially useful production, not talking about all those people losing their jobs or anything like this, but we are talking about striking a major blow, then against the armed industry. Obviously, all the military aid that's being sent, yes to Israel, but from this country, that's not even that much. Actually, a lot, though, is going to Ukraine. Keir Starmer said that he would send 3 billion a year to Ukraine for as long as it takes you. So 3 billion is approximately the same amount of money they will cost to lift the future benefit cap. That's where that money should be going. So we would say an end to all of all of the money that's going that direction as well. But the main thing to understand, I'll finish on this, is that the capitalist class will not do this, not just not because they're bastards. They are bastards. But that's not why they won't do it. It's because if they don't fund, for example, the British capitalist class, if it doesn't play its role as part of the chain of Western imperialism is linked in the chain of Western imperialism, then what does it mean? That is its role. That is how it makes its money. It helps to fund, in particular, it helps to support the export of capital around the world on behalf of US imperialism, and it does that with various subsidiaries all around the world, whereas companies industries all around the world, that is the role of British imperialism. It helps us imperialism to assert authority. If Britain stopped, for example, if the armaments industry was nationalized, all of those subsidiaries, all those interests in other countries, would immediately come under threat from Russia or China. Britain would therefore, Britain, for example, scratch right and get rid of its nuclear weapons. What use is Britain to the United States under those conditions, under under capitalist conditions, is of no use. It would lose all the entirety of its economic base. It will pay no function, basically, and the economy will collapse. It would completely crash. So whether Keir Starmer wants to or not, whether he's a nice guy, really, yeah, but he's just forcing this kind of position is a total irrelevance. The logic of the capitalist system requires the British capitalist class, requires the British government to act in this way. You cannot change their mind by appealing to their sense of like, their better moral sense. Can't say, Oh, come on. Like this, look at all these dead kids. Isn't that awful? Isn't that terrible? That makes no difference to the capitalist class. It cannot.



Apart by state. Basically, it made no difference whatsoever. We don't want to just turn back the clock to what it was like on the sixth floor 2023 because that was not a tolerable position for the Palestinians to be living in. Imperialist peace has the exact same objectives as imperialist war. Imperialist war is a an attempt a certain clash, to dominate marks, dominate people, to exploit them, to extract Surfside, to extract profit from them. Imperialist peace is the exact same thing. It's the constant search to exploit people, to extract more. We are approaches the whole lot. We're not pacifists not saying, Oh, can't we just have capitalism without war? That is all you're saying is, let's just have a an internal class war. Basically just allow the capitalist to wage a glass war against the rest of us, instead of war between nations, it makes no difference for us. If you want to fight war, you have to fight capital. Is an apparent part of it, and the only way you can do that is with the power of a working class. And that's why Marxist communists, socialists will talk about, instead of imperialist war, that war between nations, war between peoples. But we want a war between classes. There is, in fact, already a war between classes. It's just it's only been waged in one direction. It's just us who are suffering constantly being having a two child benefit cap imposed. For example, who are we're seeing their hospitals crumbling and terrible housing and universities going corrupted. So we are for organizing amongst the working class people who can actually have the power to change society, and directing that power against the campus and imperialists established from the government in Britain. That's what the RCP aims to do to a very small force in the in the grand scheme of things. But given the the heinous atrocities that are taking place in the Middle East today, the full hypocrisy that everybody can see, more people are open to that idea. The question is on everybody's mind is, well, what can I do about it? And some people offer demonstrations and things like that, demonstration obviously, and we'll be there. We'll be all the demonstrations. But what we offer that is not offer anywhere else, is the idea that we should organize the working class and strike against our own Imperials, our own capitalist class. This is, in my opinion, the all of the lessons of the communist struggle against war, which goes back to over 100 years, all of the lessons point in that direction. I think this is how you apply those lessons to the situation that we're in today.



**Unknown Speaker  00:00**
We're learning they're elderly happy, and I'm not seeing any of that, and we're not going to under this semi modern system. I think that's sure.

**Unknown Speaker**  00:16
Yeah, cool. Does anyone else have a contribution they'd like to make

**Unknown Speaker**  00:23
or a question yet. Richard,

**Unknown Speaker**  00:29
so as John said, Ben's talk brought up so many different angles, but the aspect that I'd like to raise here is what has happened to the state of capitalism and state of the British economy over the last few years, that has led to a position that we have this crisis capitalism today, that in some ways is forcing the funding of imperialist activity to enable markets to grow in different places or other to protect the Western the US, dominance of much of the world today. What has happened is that the profits, the excess profits that have been siphoned out of the British economy and most of the other Western economies in a phenomenally efficient engine at driving funds away from the masses and into the pockets of the billionaires, one less than 1% of the world population. We've got to a position now where there's such concentration of this capital, there's a few hands. The governments are bankrupt. The local authorities are bankrupt. Personal debt in this country and in most western societies is phenomenal. I know America's got even in a worse position, and America underpins the financial economy of so many countries around the world, and yet they're massively in debt. Now we know, as Marxists, that capitalism goes through these cycles of boom and slum, and we don't have time. Wasn't going to bring up that particular point, but the point but the point is, we've gone through these cycles. Are going up and down all the time. We're used to that as a general idea, but we're seeing it's beyond that. It's beyond simple cycles of booms and slumps. We've got to a situation now where there's so much concentration in capital in a small number of hands, and so little in the hands of the rest of the world, the whole capitalist system is fundamentally a breaking point. There's no way that a consumer led boom can somehow pop the capitalist world out of this situation. So what is left? What are the options that are left? They are taking markets at the global scale away from other imperialist groups, and that's why you see this pressure from China and Russia and America, or it's creating markets through this rampant destruction of war. What other options does capitalism have, other than taking this course of action and therefore appealing to the better instincts of capitalists to do something different. You can see how futile This is. There's nothing left for them. So that was the point I was going to make. It was like. That is why we've got to the position we're at, and that is why we've got to this imperialistic disaster we're facing here, and that's why we've got to attack our imperialist supporters at home as our only way of moving This situation

**Unknown Speaker**  03:38
forward. Tony, I

**Unknown Speaker**  03:41
have a question actually regarding this idea of socialism or barbarism, because I would argue that we're approaching a point of barbarism quite rapidly in Gaza. And this came up like in branch last week, because it is an interesting question.

**Unknown Speaker**  04:00
There isn't much

**Unknown Speaker**  04:01
industry in Gaza anymore. The place has been rather decimated by war. Yes, Israel is sort of and there's a lot going on in Israel, but Gaza itself has not much for working class, or an organism organized working class has been called, and I'm not saying there's never any possibility about developing afterwards. But I was just wondering what Ben's opinions were on the actual state of Middle East in terms of socialism or barbarism. How close are we really barbarous in places like civil potential for a socialist organization or party to develop in that

**Unknown Speaker**  04:52
sense, yeah,

**Unknown Speaker**  04:52
sorry, I didn't

**Unknown Speaker**  04:54
know your name. Basically, if you want to be cut off the movement, you part of the movement, would it not be best? Sounds terrible. Would it not be best to let things go worse for them, to actually see the difference and how things I mean, things get worse. You have like, if 50% of the population says that evidence fighting there's no real change. However, if we were to make things absolutely terrible to the point where people are desperate and they do want change, would it not be better to let them go to a point and then as a nation, well as Marxists and everything, give them awareness and say, This is the alternative of things changing otherwise, if you talk to the everyday person, if things are not too bad for them, and even they got plenty of K of debt or whatever, they're willing not to mobilize or even, like stop work in the sense because They're still directly thinking that the benefit. Should we clap

**Unknown Speaker**  06:12
again? My name is Stephen, by the way, it just makes me laugh so much how the Liberals point Palestine for not being able to build its economy and and not being able to fit into this capitalist model. They call them lazy. They call them, you know, they obviously don't know what they're doing. They've been given all this time opportunity, and obviously, I hope we know in this room as Marty is that the joke and the hypocrisy of it all like the way that the lands, the Palestinians, where they grow, their olive trees, have been poisoned by ecocide, the way that buildings, and including places where people work, have been bulldozed slowly, well, not even slowly, sometimes, during that quote, has happened very quickly. We see all these ways that the capitalists are suppressing the economy and how these liberals can still turn around. Obviously they don't know an ounce of history. I just adding to the points. It is a real hypocrisy, and it's ridiculous.

**Unknown Speaker**  07:12
I'm widget. I was just saying, with the thing of it being, oh, why don't you let it get worse for it to then get better. I feel like the issue with that is that when things are getting worse, people just want change. Doesn't matter what change is occurring on the standpoint. They normally vote for the person who is not in power. And as you can see in our least, most recent thing, the when, like, you know, it went from the Reform Party getting a lot more things and then non, not the too big one, like labor and

**Unknown Speaker**  07:52
the conservatives, more left wing parties

**Unknown Speaker**  07:55
also got more votes. So it came off on both sides. It's just more polarizing and more radicalizing, rather than having a consistent message, because people on the right start having their like mad man moment and saying, oh, it's people who are from the way I hate them, and then saying, it's them to blame. And then people just don't have consistent messaging. Now, if it's getting worse, and we hold a message, we unionize, talk to people more. We try and get to people and tell them, Oh, it's this, this and this, then it can more align with it, because there are a lot more left wing voters than right wing. It's just right wing messaging is very consistent and very, you know, it's just there and strong. While left wing messaging is very separated, put into different parties, they're not very

**Unknown Speaker**  08:51
for us, who are very solidarity. We're not really sticking together, and we will have, like, infighting and we kind of separate, but if we all have consistent messaging.

**Unknown Speaker**  09:09
I missed the talk as I thought was going on at 630 so I don't know if it's been addressed already, but I saw you on the parties podcast thingy talking about how the real enemy is at home and not abroad. And I think most of the room definitely agree with that. Your co host was talking about how you know protests and rallies diminishing return effect on this and you know, and how you know you expect it to pop off more around the anniversary. Just wondering something about, I guess, RC strategy talked about how trade unions should take more of a stand and how they should more collective action geared towards taking, I guess, the fight towards the enemy at home. And I just wondered if you would like to elaborate on how this sort of practical looks like, what sort of strategies the party sort of is willing to do, and how collective action at home against the enemy at home looks like in motion.

**Unknown Speaker**  10:22
I Yusuf, does anyone else have something they want to share? Ben,

**Unknown Speaker**  10:35
so I'm Ben. I'll come in and sort of briefly on this question of acceleration. Do we wait for things to get worse? Well, quite frankly, we have no control over that, right? The people in this room, we, as a party, basically, have a say over whether things will get worse. We can say that they almost certainly will, right? We've seen things get relatively worse over time. So, you know, I suppose you could say, well, do we just wait until it gets continuously worse? Whereas, you know, we must build now for a revolution, right? Ultimately, the task of the question of whether or not party will be ready in time for a revolution is determined long before that revolution happens, right? So we have to prepare ourselves. We have to be prepared. We also do know, as I said, before things will, of course, get worse. People will get more angry, people will get Miami Street, and that's what causes these breaks in society, and we've seen them already. Through this year, we've seen three fantastic revolutionary events and many more in the past, right? People will be forced into a break with capitalism as conditions worsen, although not necessarily always. When conditions worsen, there's a general pattern that revolutionary movements actually happen to get a slight economic upswing, so that people have a little bit more power and a little bit more time to sort of rest. So you can, sort of, you can sort of put it that, when's the better time to go on strike, when your workplace is laying people off and setting redundancies, or when the order sheets are thrown everyone's take over time, right? Obviously, the latter is the more powerful point to hold a strike and to kind of build a revolutionary movement. That is what we call the objective situation, right? That's not something we as revolutionaries have any control over. What we as revolutionaries do have a control, have control over is whether or not there is an organized party which can take any objective condition, any movement of the masses, and agitate to it, enter it and build it up to draw out revolutionary conclusions, and that ultimately is what our task is here, right? We have to make sure there is a party prepared which can lead to working class victory, which can put forward these explicitly revolutionary ideas. What we see at the moment, instead of that, is a complete and utter vacuum of ideas, a complete, utter vacuum on the left, right, you're absolutely right. There are far more of us who hold left wing policies as what's important, whether subconsciously or not. In fact, what reform and many of these right, right populist movements do is they actually lean on left wing slogans and drag them along the right. Why have they called their party reform? Well, because people want reforms right in almost every constituency from sort of Birmingham, North reform voters, their top priority was not immigration, it was housing, right? Another example that Ben mentioned this $8.7 billion that the US has just given to Israel. Well, at the same time as that, we've got hurricane Milton tearing through the US, absolute horrors to families, especially in lower income neighborhoods, and especially within sort of minority bottom slums in Florida. And at the same time as they've given $8.7 billion to Israel, the US has announced a $9 billion gap in federal funding for the hurricane response that a week apart, those two things have happened, and what is the mainstream media taken? What is the right way media taken? Well, it's taken that. What's taken this 300 million difference between 9,000,000,008 point 7 billion, which they claim went to sort of illegal immigrants. They claim that sort of supporting minority neighborhoods. That's what they pressure on. But ultimately, all of that messaging is leading on the fact that you've got people working class, people in Florida, in these neighborhoods, who are realizing that in a couple of days, their homes are going to be literally lifted off the ground and thrown halfway across the country, right? That's what that's that's their immediate perspective, and what they're being told, Well, it certainly doesn't line up with reality. But ultimately, what they want is not that 300 million which which is going to Well, that's even true. We can doubt that 300 million that's going to immigrants. No, they want the money that's going to make sure that when their house gets destroyed by a hurricane, it can be rebuilt, and their communities can be reconstructed, or their communities can be evacuated as is, as is just or happening to be the case in most of the wealthy neighborhoods which might be hit by this hurricane. The point is exactly as you say, what working class people want, what all of us want is the basics of life. We want housing, healthcare, education for our children. We want books, not bombs. We want healthcare, not warfare, right? These are the demands which we want, but there is no one putting forward those demands on a large enough scale, and that is where these right wing demagogues can kind of kick up. That's where they can get their support from. So the solution is very, very clear. We need to organize ourselves as that left. We need to fill that gap which is not being filled by anyone at all. We need to organize and build a revolutionary communist party which can leave put forward those agitational demands enter into any movement, and ultimately, that is how we prevent right wing populism. That is how we build revolution, and that is how we prevent things from getting worse.

**Unknown Speaker**  15:38
Also Ben, I just wanted to make a point on human nature. And as Marxists, we often get told from people all over the political spectrum that communism will never work because humans are inherently selfish and greedy, and they won't work because people won't work for the same way as a man and Doctor blah, blah, but perhaps it is actually our global system of capitalism that's forcing people to be more greedy, be more selfish, to excel themselves and make more money, become more powerful, accumulate Capital. We can see this most markedly in Israel, where everyone in well, 87 people plus in Israel, because it fits in with as Ben touched on the state siege mentality they've been forced into, and that's why we have to fight for World socialism, otherwise as a species, we'll never move forward from this internal war and class confidence. We will never have true emancipation In terms of

**Unknown Speaker**  17:02
The supply chain, question. Any other questions, contributions, points here on why you are an artist. Socialist Party is the party team involved with all this comeback. Thank you. So you. Any other contributions along, any answering, any of the questions, just kind of about, like the kind of package we've seen people using, people harassing people, manufacturing arms. In the more recent example, I believe, of people kind of discovering at the Apple Store, Revelation, just kind of taking up the whole day, or the day as they could, to disrupt the kind of local operations of the business, just like, well, by making up the lives of Workers difficult, you don't actually make a dense war machine or impede on the government's ability to support the war machine, or kind of disrupt people running the businesses kind of like up the chain. So all you're really doing is making working people miserable. And what we should be doing, I think, is agitating to the people who are unhappy with the relationships that businesses have with genocide and like bringing them in, like involving them in the struggle, because they don't want to be doing like, I mean, Apple Store worker doesn't exactly make sense of bonds, but they might not like the fact that Apple has ties with Israel. And the right thing to do shortly isn't to ruin their day, and just like prevent them from working, especially if I'm not sure how Apple works. But those kinds of like industries, people get permission, if you're taking away from consumers ability to make money, people who need the money. You're actually better than more than you were hoping for, some kind of tactical I think in the long term, this is a lot more productive. But so struggled against, they can't proceed. Many other appearances into like foreign war, into international conflicts.

**Unknown Speaker**  20:41
What was your name? Mate? John. John. Yeah, I agree with what you said, John, but I hear a lot of things along the lines of these meetings, of we need to disrupt the people up at the top, but I don't hear much about how just saying and as much as I agree with what you said, it is something talking about disrupting the new working, or the elite, the people that rule much different capitalist gods, whatever you would call it, yeah, I don't know anything about that.

**Unknown Speaker**  21:19
Any other questions, replies, contributions to that.

**Unknown Speaker**  21:24
I'll go again, if you will. Yeah, go on. I also wanted to talk about, you mentioned the eternal human greed that we built. And I think some of them needs to be discussed. Whether you like it or not. Is the eagle, whether we like each other, where we get our pride from, where we get our, you know, our kick from, right? And I think that to some extent, if there is no exploitation within the human society as a whole, whether that is exploitation of resources, oil, whether it's exploitation of war, humans, war, however you want to phrase it, I feel like these things are sort of fueling factors of the idea that there is a hierarchy to humans and the ego which you feel within yourself, right? So, if we live in a socialist world or communist world, where we are all equal, we're all on the level playing field, we're all sort of like living the sort of like the same life. I mean, yeah, cool. I might be a bit man, he might be a doctor, but we're still the same sort of thing, still getting same same pay, or whatever, however you want to phrase it, because that's open for the bit, I think that there needs to be some sort of, like, look at the sort of like internal, like, philosophy and psychology of humans alongside the Communist Party, about how you satisfy these needs that people are going to have. Because, cool, yeah, if we restart, and we all communists, will get the likelihood is I'm not going to think I'm better than you or worse than you, but I'm here now, and I do, maybe not me, but people so like, there's definitely some sort of, like, a thing that needs to be considered in terms of the social and how you feel about the integration period. Like, how, whether people are going to do that. Because I want, like, here's something I want to say, like, let's say I turn up for the communist me, and I'm like, I agree with everything you say, but I don't like gay people, for example, do you want to work with me? Do you probably not, but you kind of have to, don't you? If you want to get what is our goal here, it needs to be pure, right? If it's pure, then there's a lot of discrepancies. I don't know. We need to like each other. I've only been here, start, Peter, I've only been here for like, a few weeks, so I understand what you're saying. And I think one of the answers, and this is just one of them, is that, yes, it would be a slow integration, just like it's a slow integration for all of us, but that is through educating ourselves, you know, reading, talking, integrating, unionizing, you know, it is a slow process. And I think, I think the first thing to kind of educate myself on, for example, is, you know, the classics or what is what is and I totally understand what you're saying. I think, I think it is just like a it's just like a slow integration of learning. I think the way that you do it is, quite simply, you just get people to talk to each other, like, if you're working with a co worker, you talk to them, right? If they're a bigoted ass, all right? And let's say I am. So I I've spoken to many homophobic co workers before, right? And I just go, like, but why? And then one after a while of like, talking to them, I say I'm gay, by the way, after they've been, like, bigoted, and then they slowly change their views, because they've already associated someone who's fun to be around with being gay or being a communist or stuff like that. Because they understand that I am a person, and it humanizes like, it's not like, Oh, they're this mythical being now, who I hate. It's now,

**Unknown Speaker**  25:10
oh, it's a person I know. It's all about simulation with that culture. Yeah,

**Unknown Speaker**  25:13
exactly. And they, no matter what, we will all have more things in common than a billionaire. The billionaire is so far away from any of our working worlds or living worlds, and us down here, you know, doing quarrels and stuff like that, have so much more in common with each other than any of them

**Unknown Speaker**  25:41
will then Stephen and John, okay, I mean, you've already kind of reiterated what I was going to say. You've already already said it. But nothing separates us more than class, right? That is the single most defining feature. So if there is a concern or a query that certain people don't get along, the question you have to ask is, why is this division so possible and so allowed in this society? And you also have to remember that there is this philosophy. There might be a philosophy of ego whatsoever, but what defines us is the means of production, and that builds these social constructs from that, right? There is these philosophical ideas don't come from nothing. They come from the basis of society, which is production, right? So in order to destroy these horrible kind of manifestations of bigotry that we have, we have to destroy the system that is built on. Just

**Unknown Speaker**  26:36
wanted to address your concern that there are no solutions sort of proposed at the moment by, you know, the party, by the RCP. And I guess my only sort of like response to that would be, how can we make the decisions of the working class? It is not the communists that make revolution. All we can do is guide people when that happens. So all we're doing here today is talking to people about the problems. Do you agree with us? And as word goes out and people agree that our government is doing a terrible job and we have no future. We have no industry, we have no economy in the future, when that is a realization that strikes the majority of the general public, who will they turn to? And it should be the people that are experienced theoreticians in how to lead a socialist revolution. I think that's one of the reasons why we can't give like, the reason why direct action doesn't work is because it makes people angry and gets in the way of workers, like just oil get in the way of people going to work, and all it does is frustrate people. Well, communists don't want to frustrate people. We want to have action. That means something, and we can't do that right now. As we're building we're in a we're not maybe in a pre revolution period. We don't know revolution won't happen tomorrow, but that's why we're here, trying to build these forces so that the working class may have the leaders they need.

**Unknown Speaker**  27:58
Okay, we're coming towards the end of our discussion time, not to say that we can't continue discussing afterwards, but yeah, I'll bring Ben into sum up. Soon we've got enough time for probably one or two more contributions. But yeah, John, then Tony, is there anyone else who wants to contribute before we wrap things up?

**Unknown Speaker**  28:19
Okay? Yeah,

**Unknown Speaker**  28:22
Mingyuan, like the first thing, because how do we disrupt that layer? There's not easy ways to do it, but I think some ways have been discussed. I think we talked about strike action. There's a huge strike proposal in the US, amongst like Bock workers, I'm not sure entirely like numerically off the scale, but it was big enough to cause huge concern amongst American businesses, large American businesses, that their stock would be too short for prisons. The strike has since been called off, largely because the unions came to an agreement with the bosses, I'm pretty sure. But where that strike to go, there would have been huge disruptions to businesses. Stock wouldn't be coming in, things wouldn't be leaving. I think that, like a lot of the the working class does have a lot of power, and strikes regularly do kind of disrupt the day to day operations of businesses, such that bosses can can feel the effects. I mean, we talk about it all the time. France May, 68 the government couldn't print off pilot papers for a referendum because the French workers said no, and then they tried to print them in Belgium, and the Belgian workers said no. So it's the workers do have great power to disrupt even governments. But our job isn't just to disrupt the big board was it's not just the job to disrupt the operations of the government. It's our job to overthrow them, to expropriate that well, and distribute it amongst the people who actually create the value for being exploited. And I think that's that's a long term perspective that needs to be built for, and the conditions for happening have to be right. But that's not to say that that we shouldn't put that. I think we absolutely should. And in the meantime, there are all kinds of rules to people. be bought and all kinds of gains for the working class to be won.



**Unknown Speaker  00:00**
Mingyuan, you know, in business making communism. What if we just arose? We came up, came in, one day, everyone was suddenly a communist. Oh, great. You know, we're all getting along now. You know, that would be lovely.

**Unknown Speaker  00:12**
I think as Marxists, we all understand that communism or socialism, has to arise out of capitalism. It is a contradiction, but the working class necessarily comes from capitalism. Is a bourgeois class in itself. It arises because of the forces of production that are capitalists. And so they're going to have a lot of those capitalist contradictions within them themselves. They might be homophobic, racist as well. So interesting as well,

**Unknown Speaker  00:50**
such like. So it's it's not about working class. It's about working with them, not in a sectarian way, and pushing away sectors of the working class that you disagree with, but in trying to incorporate them into a wider political movement. But as comrade said, is based upon,

**Unknown Speaker  01:20**
okay, amazing. That was a really good discussion. I think a lot of really good points were raised. And yeah, thanks everyone for contributing so widely in the discussion. So going to see so many different people speak as well. That's really cool. I'm going to bring Ben back in for about 15 or so minutes to try and touch on some of the things that were raised and bring it sort of round to a complete close. And then afterwards, I've been told we have this room until the bar shuts. So, I mean, feel free to stick around, grab a drink, have a chat.

**Unknown Speaker  01:57**
Yeah, that was that was interesting. I've got the thought process going, got the juices flowing. John talked about this labor arms embargo, this limiting of 10% of the weapon sales, or something, from Britain to Israel. It's partly for legal reasons. Is it also for political reasons? They want political cover because they can feel the anger that exists. But this is part of Keir Starmer talking about the need for a ceasefire, how he doesn't like war. It's his pacifist image that he's trying to project, and it tells us a lot about pacifism. This pacifism is useless. It's It's nothing, but Leon Trotsky described it as the servant of imperialism. That's what pacifism is, because it paints a nice space on imperialism. It just says that if we could all just be a little bit nicer to each other, although I'm doing my best by trying to, by suspending some of these arms embargoes, then maybe we'll be able to stop the war. But that's rubbish. That's not the case. We know that because war is an inherent part of capitalism, and so all pacifism does is it misdirects and and throw smoke in in your eyes, basically. And we're we have to have no time for that. We're not pacifists with with a class war. In fact, it's a meaningless thing to say, Oh, I just wish we could capitalism without war. And we have to be Marxist communists. Have to be really hard against pacifists, bourgeois liberal fiction, lie. And I think Starmer is exposing that quite nicely for us. He's quite he's doing us a favor, basically, by exposing this. Now, Tony asked about like the working class in Gaza, and is there much of the possibility of organizing any kind of socialist or communist force there? And you're quite right, the answer is no. Basically, at this stage, it's just been destroyed. No one is working there. There is no there's just no crossover on the communist malicious in person with the PFLP and dflp, yeah. But they, I would say, are not organizing. They do exist or gonna like organizations like that do exist, but they are not organizing like general strikes, for example, at this stage, because, how can they? Because there's no basis for that. And so from that point of view, I would say the the solution here, those members or supporters of the RCP have realized, will have noted that over the last year or so, we've got a lot of emphasis on and stress the idea of an interfaith at the start of like about this time last year, we talked about and by that We what we're referencing is the first broad based movement. Second father was more individualistic terrorist action. That's not what we're talking about. We talked about broad based movement, general strikes, mass occupations and so on. That's what the first and we we referenced 2021 also where there was a kind of joint struggle between people in Gaza, people in the West Bank, and Arabs in Israel itself, all kind of working together, civil disobedience, general strikes and so on. And we were referencing that as the basis for struggle. That was, that's how what success was, what strong struggle would look like in the region. We aren't emphasizing that so much anywhere, because it is simply not possible where, within the boundaries of Historic Palestine, where is such a movement going to come from? It cannot come right now, from Gaza, because people aren't working. They're just trying to survive. The West Bank is under more fierce military occupation than than ever. More and more settlers are in there, pushing all the time faster and faster. And then within Israeli societies is divided. There were, if you remember, not that long ago, massive protests against Netanyahu because they don't think and they're right that they care about the hostages. Israeli military has killed more hostages than it's free, but it's not divided about whether or not the war is a good or whether or not, you know, Palestine should be free. That's not what is dividing Israeli society. It's just about how to get the hostages back. Did they want to cease fire? They want to keep going for war, but it's not because they want Palestine free. So although they're in divisions, it's not a long time. So where our wallet, where is a kind of interfaith class based movement going to come from within that region, within that within boundaries of stoichio is not going to come right now? That is a very, very distant prospect. And so we emphasize two things. We emphasize the countries in the region with a large working class or and or a large Palestinian population. There are a lot of Palestinians in Jordan. And what has what has the regime in Jordan done to support Palestine? Really? They made statements. They've done nothing. They've done absolutely nothing. A serious struggle organized and led by the Palestinians in Jordan could topple that regime. You could have a massive that could topple that regime, and then you would have a serious force in the region that could fight on behalf of the Palestinians. Other regimes in the region are that with a big, powerful, intact working class. Are Egypt, for example, or Iran, actually, or turkey, for example? Yeah, big movements in those places led by the working class that were able to topple Asia as well, as happened in 2011 in Egypt, for example, they were able to topple those regimes and put them in power at workers regimes that would actually then act in support of parties. That is where a revolutionary movement would come from. At this point in the struggle. We emphasize that. We also emphasize this point that the main emphasis here, because here we are saying Britain, which is to attack the Western imperialists. That is also, that's the other way. That's the other angle by which you can liberate Palestine. But right now, within the boundaries of those,

**Unknown Speaker  08:17**
apart from those points, I think most of the questions and the discussion sort of centered around, yeah, like, what are we what can we do, even this question of even this question of that, should we allow things to get worse? All of this is basically the question of, what is the role of communists in this group? What should we actually be doing? And I'm really glad, and I'm heartened to see that that's where the discussion is done. Basically, we understand and we agree on the on the main political processes going on, the situation. Question is, what we're going to do about it? Yeah, that's a really good position to be. I well, because, as I think we've said, I mean, Richard made this point, that the perspective is for more imperialist conflict in the Middle East and all over the world, that the world is capitalism, globally, is in a massive crisis ever since 2008 in one form or another, the economy crisis. When the economy is in crisis, a different imperial powers will fight over markets as further influence of profits. At the same time as that, there is this general process of a decline of US imperialism, a decline, a relative decline in the influence of US imperialism, and a relative rise of Russia and China. There is more and more interim period responses, and that then express itself in Ukraine, for example, or in that process is not going away if there's a ceasefire tomorrow in the Middle East, if and if there's a ceasefire tomorrow in Ukraine that doesn't undo that general process that is taking place, that doesn't fix the world economy, that doesn't solve the conflict between rival and periods of this situation is going to pop up in one place after another. Maybe it'll be in Taiwan, for example, or in Korea, North Korea, for example. Obviously, it's ongoing in numerous African states, and that's probably any given test, but I wouldn't take much for it to kick off in some Latin American countries. This is only going to intensify in the coming period. Interim periodist conflict is going to get worse. This isn't capitalism gone wrong. This is capitalism. This is the best that capitalism has to offer in this period and in that situation. What is the role of communists? As was said, we can't stop that. Communists don't. Communists aren't, aren't making it worse. It's not like capitalism is not becoming worse because communists are there, like agitating to make that happen. Nor, by the way, are people going to draw conclusions about that, nor are people going to going to, sort of say, start thinking, Oh, maybe capitalism is, maybe the system is the problem. It's not because communists go around saying that, but most people will feel that conclusion. Some people will, and that's why we bother otherwise, some people will feel that conclusion, sure, but most people, most ordinary people, do not learn about politics and society and everything else through books and meetings and clever speeches or anything like that, not because they're stupid, but just because they don't have the time. People have lives, they have jobs, they have their things to do, families. They don't have the time to go to there's a reason most people in the dream are quite young, because as you get older and you get a family and everything else you then you just don't like the way capitalism is structured. You don't have time to engage in that way. Most people, though they do, learn through their own experience of life and human human consciousness is a very conservative thing. We actually Marxist communists have that in common with conservatives, and actually we disagree with the liberals in that we think that human consciousness is a conservative thing. People are not looking to go and revolutionize their lives, or people just want to live their lives. They want to do what they enjoy doing, they want to just spend time with people that they love and do things they enjoy and just get on with it. But what causes radicalization is when that no longer becomes possible, when it is actually no longer possible to just live your life as you want to, because you can't pay the bills, you can't feed your family, or you lose your job, or whatever it is, or what you were expecting your life would be like is suddenly taken away from you, or even gradually taken away from you. Wake up working one morning, you realize this isn't what it was supposed to be like. This isn't what I was promised. This isn't a better life that we were promised we would have compared to that of our parents and and that's when people drawing radical conclusions. Communists don't create that. We don't cause that situation to arise. Capitalism does that, and that is what provokes people to draw revolutionary conclusions, and that's what provokes movements, and that's what provokes 500,000 people on the streets of London on Saturday, for example, because they can see the hypocrisy. They're horrified by what's going on, and they begin to feel it. They begin to think, why are we sending all this money to support when hospitals and schools are crumbling over here, the role of communists in that situation is to direct that anger, which inevitably when it first breaks out, is a bit confused. It's not directed in necessarily the exact right way people are. No one wakes up and just thinks, oh, yeah, I'm a communist. Overthrow capitalism, and all of a sudden they just magically, like understood everything that Marx ever wrote. That's not the case. The goal of communists is to intervene in a movement like that and try and bring all the threads together and direct that movement, that partial movement over, for example, the question, direct it at its root cause, which is the capitalist, imperialist system, or if it's a movement over wages, or the two child benefit cap, or whatever it is that there's some strike, it's about, it's about partial thing here and there. Draw those threads together and link it together and direct it then at the root cause. This is the main thing that the communists have to offer. This, the main thing the RCP has to offer it is, as I think was said by somebody, it is this question of ideas, because there is a lot going on. There's a lot of disruption to factories, for example, Palestine action is doing a lot like that. There's that kind of direct action side. There's demos. There were encampments obviously at the universities in the last term. There's a lot going on around Palestine, a lot going on around all sorts of questions, and we should get involved in that. Rcpms are involved in all of that have been involved in all that stuff. That's very good. But what is lacking at this stage is is ideas to connect all of these different threads together prompt them at the root cause. And I think that is the main thing that we can offer, because, because we're communists and all these there's plenty of people who will involve themselves in this activity, and that's fantastic, but who are not communists, we can offer. That's specifically what the RCP can offer. Obviously, what we want is to do much more than that. We want to be needed. And the question was, the question was great about tactics that we are there was a campaign around Newcastle. There's a arms factory there that's linked to the Israeli war machine called Rafael. There was a campaign called shut down Rafael. There was a big, broad coalition. And we were in Newcastle. We're reasonably strong, but we're not overwhelmingly strong. And so we were part, an important part, but not the leading part in this campaign. And we were playing forward the idea the kind of the leading faction, the strongest faction, was in favor of a Palestine action style approach to shutting down this factory direct action if they could, like, get on the roof and stuff like that, and also just try and stop the workers going into work by doing it. And what we were saying was we should try and stop the workers going to work by convincing the workers to go on strike, for example, by basically winning the workers out, rather than doing it from outside, get the people inside to come out and join now, in the end, we were not able to convince that campaign to go down that route, and actually it took quite a bad turn, in my opinion, that became very anti worker kind of campaign, and that's counterproductive. And it had, it didn't work in shutting down that particular factory. But that's, that's the role that we play. Basically, we participate, we bring our ideas, we try and win people over. Obviously, what we want is to be strong enough. Is to be big enough and strong enough that we can leave these campaigns ourselves. But we are not that the RCP is 1200 people in Britain, in the UK, that is, that is not very many people at all, and it's not we have to be realistic about what we can and can't achieve at this point. What we want to do is involve ourselves as much as possible and bring our ideas into it. That is as much as we can achieve at this stage. But what we want to achieve, yes, is blockades. It's strikes, but you're Was it you or someone that was this fellow who's also left, he was like that on its own, won't, won't even be enough. If you could shut down every Arms Factory in the UK and Israel, would still get weapons. That is true. Ultimately, we need to bring down the British government all the support and money and everything else that is currently flowing towards Israel and and send it to people who will fight that regime, basically in it on a class basis, the bourgeois in the Arab states. But we're going to like working class movements in in that region, obviously could be supported even the inspiration for the Russian Revolution, the inspiration that that provided to a whole wave of revolutionary movements all across the world, the inspiration that a revolution in Britain provided that ultimately is the goal. Obviously we get there by through these kind of partial struggles, inevitably revolutionary. But we partial struggles to get there, building up towards them. But this is the way to view it. I think we imperialism, like the Israeli regime and world imperialism, is this massive castle that has been built up over decades and decades, hundreds of years. It is very, very powerful. It was a very, very strong fit. And

**Unknown Speaker  18:05**
the size that we are would be like tiny little individual just banging their kicks against the water castles. And I'm not for that that will just all that will do is exhaust us and deliver no results and burn people. What we need to do is step step, slightly back from the castle, and build up, build a battering ram and and then use that in conjunction with the rest of the movement against the castle. And building the battering ram is, is the study of the ideas and and practicing connecting those ideas to the movement. I think that is our main task at this particular stage. Obviously, we can develop it from there. I'll just finish this up. And, and, yeah, and then this final question is, in the course of that talking about, like, where consciousness comes from? A lot of people spoke about this, like, how about what people are selfish or bigoted opinions. Obviously, we will find people like that, but it's actually in the course of this struggle that you will overcome a lot of those prejudices. It's as the comment was talking about, it's like, it's like, yeah, jams people by living your life alongside them. But in particular, it's through the it's in the course of struggle. It's in the course of class struggle that these prejudices get dissolved. That's been the case. I won't go into now to run out of time, but that's been the case. That's the case in the minor strike in the 80s, for example, all kinds of prejudice, sexist prejudices, misogynistic prejudices, got dissolved in that struggle because the minors wives fought alongside the miners in that strike. And there are specific and concrete examples of how, how that kind of sexism and misogyny was wiped out in the course of that struggle amongst that particular layer of workers. Yeah, that's it. You fight alongside someone for some greater cause, some great struggle, all those questions get blasted out in that process. And then, yeah, sure, you build it. You start to build a kind of society that doesn't lay the ground that doesn't allow causing the soil for these prejudices to exist. Angles wrote about this. How many years ago, hundreds, over 100 years ago, 50 years ago, when he said, he talked about the family, and he said that the kind, the way the family will exist in relations between humans will exist under under socialism, under communism, RBR well beyond any of our comprehension today, because society will look so different, and the way in which people interact with each other will look so different, we could speculate about it now. He says people, in how many years time, won't care at all what we think they should be living their lives like or what we predict. They will make their own history. They will decide for themselves on the basis of a new form of relation, new form of production, and that is the kind of society that we're fighting for. And that starts, I think, with with building a force that can take these ideas into this movement that's been developed right now. The flashpoint is on the question

**Unknown Speaker  21:12**
period, do you want just saving it until the end? There's like, two minutes. That's fine. We'll just chat after. Is that cool? Thank you. Okay, so just before we wrap up, obviously, we are in a nice room today, much nicer than we usually get, and rooms cost money. So we would really, really appreciate it if you would help contribute towards the running of this meeting by probably buying a newspaper at solidarity would be an amazing thing to do. We've got loads of articles about the escalation of of the hostilities in the Middle East that given our perspective on all these different things about the role of Britain in the western imperialist machine. Do other papers over there? Can you just grab one for me? Can someone grab a paper? So these are, these are our papers. We'd love if you could. You could check them out. We're going to be around here for a while. So if you're interested in having more conversations about what we've talked about, about anything that has come up during this conversation, then please stick around. You can grab another drink or grab your first drink downstairs. Grab some grab a paper. Have a look at some of our books and our things that we've produced. And I really, really recommend trying to get stuck in because, to be honest, it's a really exciting time to be a class conscious person, there's for a very long, long time, it seemed like nothing at all was happening in Britain. It seemed like no matter how bad things got, people would never, ever do anything. But now we're at a stage. Things are all hotting up. Everything's happening, and it's more important now than ever that we have good perspectives, that we have good ideas, and that we can intervene as effectively as possible, because there are more opportunities now than ever for us to get stuck in and I think to make the most of those opportunities, to make the most of the situation that we're in, we all need to be organized in the RCP. So yeah, it's been a pleasure. So amazing to see so many of you. I'm going to formally end the meeting now come find us for papers and dancers for Jane's.